AI_INSTALL_GUIDE.md, before:

# AE Autopilot - AI Installation Guide 🤖

## Context
You are an expert AI Assistant (like Gemini or Cursor's Agent). Your task is to **install** the AE Autopilot system into the user's current workspace. This system is a set of file-based agents, rules, and skills designed to automate Analytics Engineering workflows.

## Quick Install (Clone)
If the user wants to install by cloning the source repository directly:
1.  **Repo Link**: `https://github.com/matheusbuniotto/ae-autopilot-agents`
2.  **Instruction**: Clone the repository and copy the `.cursor/`, `.opencode/`, and `shared/` directories into the root of the target project.

---

## Manual Installation Procedure
Follow these steps precisely if you are reconstructing the files from scratch. Execute the shell commands and write the files as specified.

### Step 0: Configuration & Model Selection
Ask the user: "Select an installation mode: **System Default**, **Budget**, or **Optimized**?"

Based on the answer, set the following internal variables for the installation:

| Mode | `{{FAST_MODEL}}` | `{{SMART_MODEL}}` | Notes |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **System Default** | *(Empty)* | *(Empty)* | **(Recommended for Cursor)** Removes the `model:` line entirely. Cursor/OpenCode will use the user's active chat model. |
| **Budget** | `claude-3-5-haiku` | `claude-3-5-sonnet` | Good for cost efficiency. Sonnet handles coding, Haiku handles routing. |
| **Optimized** | `claude-3-5-haiku` | `claude-3-5-sonnet` | **Special Config:** Use Haiku for `pull` AND `plan`. Use Sonnet for `execute` and `review`. |

**IMPORTANT:**
- If **System Default**, DO NOT write the `model: ...` line in the agent files.
- If **Optimized**, use `{{FAST_MODEL}}` for the `autopilot-plan` agent (instead of `{{SMART_MODEL}}`).

**When writing the files below, REPLACE the `{{MODEL}}` placeholders with the actual model string.**

---

### Step 1: Create Directory Structure
First, create the necessary folder structure.

```bash
mkdir -p .cursor/agents
mkdir -p .cursor/rules
mkdir -p .opencode/command
mkdir -p shared/prompts
mkdir -p shared/schemas
mkdir -p .planning
mkdir -p .autopilot
```

### Step 2: Create Shared Resources
These are the core logic files used by both Cursor and OpenCode.

#### 2.1 Write `shared/schemas/state-schema.json`
```json
{
  "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
  "title": "Autopilot State Schema",
  "type": "object",
  "required": ["task_id", "branch", "stage", "timestamps"],
  "properties": {
    "task_id": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[A-Z]+-[0-9]+$" },
    "branch": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[A-Z]+-[0-9]+$" },
    "stage": { "type": "string", "enum": ["pull", "plan", "execute-plan", "review", "pr"] },
    "classification": { "type": "string", "enum": ["L0", "L1", "L2", "L3"] },
    "plan": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "exists": { "type": "boolean" },
        "phases": { "type": "array", "items": { "type": "string" } },
        "completed_phases": { "type": "array", "items": { "type": "string" } }
      }
    },
    "commits": {
      "type": "array",
      "items": {
        "type": "object",
        "required": ["sha", "message", "timestamp"],
        "properties": {
          "sha": { "type": "string" },
          "message": { "type": "string" },
          "stage": { "type": "string" },
          "timestamp": { "type": "string" }
        }
      }
    },
    "timestamps": {
      "type": "object",
      "required": ["started_at"],
      "properties": {
        "started_at": { "type": "string" },
        "last_updated": { "type": "string" }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### 2.2 Write `shared/schemas/task-schema.json`
```json
{
  "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
  "title": "Autopilot Task Metadata Schema",
  "type": "object",
  "required": ["id", "key", "summary", "description"],
  "properties": {
    "id": { "type": "string" },
    "key": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[A-Z]+-[0-9]+$" },
    "summary": { "type": "string" },
    "description": { "type": "string" },
    "labels": { "type": "array", "items": { "type": "string" } },
    "acceptance_criteria": { "type": "array", "items": { "type": "string" } },
    "fetched_at": { "type": "string", "format": "date-time" }
  }
}
```

#### 2.3 Write `shared/schemas/classification-schema.json`
```json
{
  "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
  "title": "Autopilot Classification Schema",
  "type": "object",
  "required": ["task_id", "classification_level", "signals", "rationale"],
  "properties": {
    "task_id": { "type": "string" },
    "classification_level": { "type": "string", "enum": ["L0", "L1", "L2", "L3"] },
    "signals": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "is_silver_layer": { "type": "boolean" },
        "downstream_model_count": { "type": "integer" },
        "affected_models": { "type": "array", "items": { "type": "string" } },
        "join_count": { "type": "integer" },
        "requires_backfill": { "type": "boolean" }
      }
    },
    "rationale": { "type": "string" },
    "requires_plan": { "type": "boolean" }
  }
}
```

#### 2.4 Write `shared/prompts/classification.md`
(Copy the content from `shared/prompts/classification.md` provided in the previous context)

#### 2.5 Write `shared/prompts/git-operations.md`
(Copy the content from `shared/prompts/git-operations.md` provided in the previous context)

### Step 3: Create Cursor Rules (MDC)

#### 3.1 Write `.cursor/rules/autopilot-core.mdc`
(Copy content from `.cursor/rules/autopilot-core.mdc`)

#### 3.2 Write `.cursor/rules/git-safety.mdc`
(Copy content from `.cursor/rules/git-safety.mdc`)

#### 3.3 Write `.cursor/rules/autopilot-commands.mdc`
```markdown
---
description: "Register Autopilot commands for Cursor context"
globs: "**/*"
---

# Autopilot Commands

This rule registers the Autopilot slash commands for easy access in Cursor.

## Commands

### `/autopilot-pull`
**Description:** Initialize a new task from JIRA.
**Action:** Activate `@autopilot-pull` agent.
**Usage:** `/autopilot-pull TSK-123`

### `/autopilot-plan`
**Description:** Classify task complexity and generate a plan.
**Action:** Activate `@autopilot-plan` agent.
**Usage:** `/autopilot-plan` (after pull)

### `/autopilot-execute`
**Description:** Execute the code changes based on the plan.
**Action:** Activate `@autopilot-execute-plan` agent.
**Usage:** `/autopilot-execute`

### `/autopilot-review`
**Description:** Run validation (dbt build, lint) before PR.
**Action:** Activate `@autopilot-review` agent.
**Usage:** `/autopilot-review`

### `/autopilot-pr`
**Description:** Create the Pull Request.
**Action:** Activate `@autopilot-pr` agent.
**Usage:** `/autopilot-pr`

### `/autopilot-launch`
**Description:** Orchestrate the full workflow automatically.
**Action:** Activate `@autopilot-launch` agent.
**Usage:** `/autopilot-launch TSK-123`

### `/autopilot-setup`
**Description:** Configure project settings (JIRA, Git).
**Action:** Activate `@autopilot-setup` agent.
**Usage:** `/autopilot-setup`

## Context
When a user types one of these commands, you must:
1. Identify the matching agent in `.cursor/agents/`.
2. Activate that agent to handle the request.
3. Pass any arguments (like Task ID) to the agent.
```

### Step 4: Create Skills (Agents) with Model Configuration

#### 4.1 Write `.cursor/agents/autopilot-pull.md`
*Uses: `{{FAST_MODEL}}`*

```markdown
---
description: "Pull JIRA task metadata and initialize Git branch. Triggers: /pull, /autopilot-pull, 'start task', 'pull task'"
model: {{FAST_MODEL}}
tools: ["Read", "Write", "Bash"]
---

(Copy content from `.cursor/agents/autopilot-pull.md` body)
```

#### 4.2 Write `.cursor/agents/autopilot-plan.md`
*Uses: `{{SMART_MODEL}}` (Default) OR `{{FAST_MODEL}}` (Optimized)*

```markdown
---
description: "Classify task complexity (L0-L3) and generate execution plan. Triggers: /plan, /autopilot-plan, 'plan task', 'analyze task'"
model: {{SMART_MODEL}}
tools: ["Read", "Write", "Bash"]
---

(Copy content from `.cursor/agents/autopilot-plan.md` body)
```

#### 4.3 Write `.cursor/agents/autopilot-execute-plan.md`
*Uses: `{{SMART_MODEL}}`*

```markdown
---
description: "Execute dbt/SQL changes based on plan. Triggers: /execute-plan, /execute, 'implement changes', 'do work'"
model: {{SMART_MODEL}}
tools: ["Read", "Write", "Bash"]
---

(Copy content from `.cursor/agents/autopilot-execute-plan.md` body)
```

#### 4.4 Write `.cursor/agents/autopilot-review.md`
*Uses: `{{SMART_MODEL}}`*

```markdown
---
description: "Run final validation (dbt build, lint, docs) before PR. Triggers: /review, /autopilot-review, 'review changes', 'check quality'"
model: {{SMART_MODEL}}
tools: ["Read", "Write", "Bash"]
---

(Copy content from `.cursor/agents/autopilot-review.md` body)
```

#### 4.5 Write `.cursor/agents/autopilot-pr.md`
*Uses: `{{FAST_MODEL}}`*

```markdown
---
description: "Create Pull Request and request human review. Triggers: /pr, /autopilot-pr, 'create pr', 'open pr', 'ship it'"
model: {{FAST_MODEL}}
tools: ["Read", "Write", "Bash"]
---

(Copy content from `.cursor/agents/autopilot-pr.md` body)
```

#### 4.6 Write `.cursor/agents/autopilot-launch.md`
*Uses: `{{FAST_MODEL}}`*

```markdown
---
description: "Orchestrate full workflow (Pull -> Plan -> Execute -> PR). Triggers: /launch, /autopilot-launch, 'run autopilot', 'do it all'"
model: {{FAST_MODEL}}
tools: ["Read", "Write", "Bash"]
---

(Copy content from `.cursor/agents/autopilot-launch.md` body)
```

#### 4.7 Write `.cursor/agents/autopilot-setup.md`
*Uses: `{{FAST_MODEL}}`*

```markdown
---
description: "Configure Autopilot settings (JIRA, Git, Team). Triggers: /setup, /autopilot-setup, 'configure autopilot'"
model: {{FAST_MODEL}}
tools: ["Read", "Write", "Bash"]
---

(Copy content from `.cursor/agents/autopilot-setup.md` body)
```

### Step 5: Create OpenCode Commands

#### 5.1 Write `.opencode/command/autopilot-pull.md`
```markdown
---
description: "Pull JIRA task metadata and initialize Git branch. Triggers: /pull, /autopilot-pull, 'start task', 'pull task'"
arguments: "$TASK_ID"
---

# Autopilot Pull (OpenCode)

See Cursor version for full implementation: `.cursor/agents/autopilot-pull.md`
```

#### 5.2 Write `.opencode/command/autopilot-plan.md`
```markdown
---
description: "Classify task complexity (L0-L3) and generate execution plan. Triggers: /plan, /autopilot-plan, 'plan task', 'analyze task'"
arguments: "$TASK_ID"
---

# Autopilot Plan (OpenCode)

## Purpose
Classify task complexity (L0-L3) and generate execution plan if needed.

## Execution
This command follows the logic defined in `.cursor/agents/autopilot-plan.md`.

### Steps:
1. **Load State**: Verify `pull` stage is complete via `.autopilot/state.json`.
2. **Detect Models**: Identify affected dbt models from JIRA context and git diff.
3. **Impact Analysis**: Use `dbt ls --select +model+` to find downstream dependencies.
4. **Classification**: Apply L0-L3 heuristics (Silver layer escalates risk).
5. **Planning**: If L2/L3, generate structured steps in `.autopilot/state.json`.
6. **Persistence**: Save results to `.autopilot/classification.json`.

## Usage
```bash
/autopilot-plan TSK-123
```

## See Also
- Full logic: `.cursor/agents/autopilot-plan.md`
- Heuristics: `shared/prompts/classification.md`
- Schema: `shared/schemas/classification-schema.json`
```

#### 5.3 Write `.opencode/command/autopilot-execute-plan.md`
```markdown
---
description: "Execute dbt/SQL changes based on plan. Triggers: /execute-plan, /execute, 'implement changes', 'do work'"
---

# Autopilot Execute-Plan (OpenCode)

See Cursor version for full implementation: `.cursor/agents/autopilot-execute-plan.md`
```

#### 5.4 Write `.opencode/command/autopilot-review.md`
```markdown
---
description: "Run final validation (dbt build, lint, docs) before PR. Triggers: /review, /autopilot-review, 'review changes', 'check quality'"
---

# Autopilot Review (OpenCode)

See Cursor version for full implementation: `.cursor/agents/autopilot-review.md`
```

#### 5.5 Write `.opencode/command/autopilot-pr.md`
```markdown
---
description: "Create Pull Request and request human review. Triggers: /pr, /autopilot-pr, 'create pr', 'open pr', 'ship it'"
---

# Autopilot PR (OpenCode)

See Cursor version for full implementation: `.cursor/agents/autopilot-pr.md`
```

#### 5.6 Write `.opencode/command/autopilot-launch.md`
```markdown
---
description: "Orchestrate full workflow (Pull -> Plan -> Execute -> PR). Triggers: /launch, /autopilot-launch, 'run autopilot', 'do it all'"
arguments: "$TASK_ID"
---

# Autopilot Launch (OpenCode)

See Cursor version for full implementation: `.cursor/agents/autopilot-launch.md`
```

#### 5.7 Write `.opencode/command/autopilot-setup.md`
```markdown
---
description: "Configure Autopilot settings (JIRA, Git, Team). Triggers: /setup, /autopilot-setup"
---

# Autopilot Setup (OpenCode)

See Cursor version for full implementation: `.cursor/agents/autopilot-setup.md`

This command checks for `.autopilot/config.json` and helps you create it if missing.
```


### Step 6: Update .gitignore
Add the following to `.gitignore`:

```text
.autopilot/
.planning/
```

### Step 7: Final Verification
Run this command to verify installation:

```bash
ls -la .cursor/agents/
ls -la shared/schemas/
```

You should see 6 agent files and 3 schema files.

### Step 8: Cleanup (Optional)
If you copied the full repo, you can delete the `docs/` folder as it is not needed for runtime execution. All necessary context is embedded in the agents and `shared/` folder.

```bash
rm -rf docs/
```

## Completion Message
Once done, tell the user:
"AE Autopilot v1.0 installed successfully. 🚀
Run `/autopilot:launch TSK-123` to start your first task."

Commit message:

docs: optimize installation flow for direct URL prompting

AI_INSTALL_GUIDE.md, after:

# AE Autopilot - AI Installation Guide 🤖

## 🤖 Agent Instructions (Read First)
**If you are an AI Assistant (Cursor Agent, Gemini, Claude) reading this via a URL:**
1.  **Do NOT summarize** this document.
2.  **Execute** the installation procedure step-by-step below.
3.  **Start at "Step 0"** immediately.

---

## Context
You are an expert AI Assistant. Your task is to **install** the AE Autopilot system into the user's current workspace. This system is a set of file-based agents, rules, and skills designed to automate Analytics Engineering workflows.

## Quick Install (Clone)
If the user wants to install by cloning the source repository directly:
1.  **Repo Link**: `https://github.com/matheusbuniotto/ae-autopilot-agents`
2.  **Instruction**: Clone the repository and copy the `.cursor/`, `.opencode/`, and `shared/` directories into the root of the target project.

---

## Manual Installation Procedure
Follow these steps precisely if you are reconstructing the files from scratch. Execute the shell commands and write the files as specified.

### Step 0: Configuration & Model Selection
Ask the user: "Select an installation mode: **System Default**, **Budget**, or **Optimized**?"

Based on the answer, set the following internal variables for the installation:

| Mode | `{{FAST_MODEL}}` | `{{SMART_MODEL}}` | Notes |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **System Default** | *(Empty)* | *(Empty)* | **(Recommended for Cursor)** Removes the `model:` line entirely. Cursor/OpenCode will use the user's active chat model. |
| **Budget** | `claude-3-5-haiku` | `claude-3-5-sonnet` | Good for cost efficiency. Sonnet handles coding, Haiku handles routing. |
| **Optimized** | `claude-3-5-haiku` | `claude-3-5-sonnet` | **Special Config:** Use Haiku for `pull` AND `plan`. Use Sonnet for `execute` and `review`. |

**IMPORTANT:**
- If **System Default**, DO NOT write the `model: ...` line in the agent files.
- If **Optimized**, use `{{FAST_MODEL}}` for the `autopilot-plan` agent (instead of `{{SMART_MODEL}}`).

**When writing the files below, REPLACE the `{{MODEL}}` placeholders with the actual model string.**

---

### Step 1: Create Directory Structure
First, create the necessary folder structure.

```bash
mkdir -p .cursor/agents
mkdir -p .cursor/rules
mkdir -p .opencode/command
mkdir -p shared/prompts
mkdir -p shared/schemas
mkdir -p .planning
mkdir -p .autopilot
```

### Step 2: Create Shared Resources
These are the core logic files used by both Cursor and OpenCode.

#### 2.1 Write `shared/schemas/state-schema.json`
```json
{
  "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
  "title": "Autopilot State Schema",
  "type": "object",
  "required": ["task_id", "branch", "stage", "timestamps"],
  "properties": {
    "task_id": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[A-Z]+-[0-9]+$" },
    "branch": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[A-Z]+-[0-9]+$" },
    "stage": { "type": "string", "enum": ["pull", "plan", "execute-plan", "review", "pr"] },
    "classification": { "type": "string", "enum": ["L0", "L1", "L2", "L3"] },
    "plan": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "exists": { "type": "boolean" },
        "phases": { "type": "array", "items": { "type": "string" } },
        "completed_phases": { "type": "array", "items": { "type": "string" } }
      }
    },
    "commits": {
      "type": "array",
      "items": {
        "type": "object",
        "required": ["sha", "message", "timestamp"],
        "properties": {
          "sha": { "type": "string" },
          "message": { "type": "string" },
          "stage": { "type": "string" },
          "timestamp": { "type": "string" }
        }
      }
    },
    "timestamps": {
      "type": "object",
      "required": ["started_at"],
      "properties": {
        "started_at": { "type": "string" },
        "last_updated": { "type": "string" }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### 2.2 Write `shared/schemas/task-schema.json`
```json
{
  "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
  "title": "Autopilot Task Metadata Schema",
  "type": "object",
  "required": ["id", "key", "summary", "description"],
  "properties": {
    "id": { "type": "string" },
    "key": { "type": "string", "pattern": "^[A-Z]+-[0-9]+$" },
    "summary": { "type": "string" },
    "description": { "type": "string" },
    "labels": { "type": "array", "items": { "type": "string" } },
    "acceptance_criteria": { "type": "array", "items": { "type": "string" } },
    "fetched_at": { "type": "string", "format": "date-time" }
  }
}
```

#### 2.3 Write `shared/schemas/classification-schema.json`
```json
{
  "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
  "title": "Autopilot Classification Schema",
  "type": "object",
  "required": ["task_id", "classification_level", "signals", "rationale"],
  "properties": {
    "task_id": { "type": "string" },
    "classification_level": { "type": "string", "enum": ["L0", "L1", "L2", "L3"] },
    "signals": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "is_silver_layer": { "type": "boolean" },
        "downstream_model_count": { "type": "integer" },
        "affected_models": { "type": "array", "items": { "type": "string" } },
        "join_count": { "type": "integer" },
        "requires_backfill": { "type": "boolean" }
      }
    },
    "rationale": { "type": "string" },
    "requires_plan": { "type": "boolean" }
  }
}
```

#### 2.4 Write `shared/prompts/classification.md`
(Copy the content from `shared/prompts/classification.md` provided in the previous context)

#### 2.5 Write `shared/prompts/git-operations.md`
(Copy the content from `shared/prompts/git-operations.md` provided in the previous context)

### Step 3: Create Cursor Rules (MDC)

#### 3.1 Write `.cursor/rules/autopilot-core.mdc`
(Copy content from `.cursor/rules/autopilot-core.mdc`)

#### 3.2 Write `.cursor/rules/git-safety.mdc`
(Copy content from `.cursor/rules/git-safety.mdc`)

#### 3.3 Write `.cursor/rules/autopilot-commands.mdc`
```markdown
---
description: "Register Autopilot commands for Cursor context"
globs: "**/*"
---

# Autopilot Commands

This rule registers the Autopilot slash commands for easy access in Cursor.

## Commands

### `/autopilot-pull`
**Description:** Initialize a new task from JIRA.
**Action:** Activate `@autopilot-pull` agent.
**Usage:** `/autopilot-pull TSK-123`

### `/autopilot-plan`
**Description:** Classify task complexity and generate a plan.
**Action:** Activate `@autopilot-plan` agent.
**Usage:** `/autopilot-plan` (after pull)

### `/autopilot-execute`
**Description:** Execute the code changes based on the plan.
**Action:** Activate `@autopilot-execute-plan` agent.
**Usage:** `/autopilot-execute`

### `/autopilot-review`
**Description:** Run validation (dbt build, lint) before PR.
**Action:** Activate `@autopilot-review` agent.
**Usage:** `/autopilot-review`

### `/autopilot-pr`
**Description:** Create the Pull Request.
**Action:** Activate `@autopilot-pr` agent.
**Usage:** `/autopilot-pr`

### `/autopilot-launch`
**Description:** Orchestrate the full workflow automatically.
**Action:** Activate `@autopilot-launch` agent.
**Usage:** `/autopilot-launch TSK-123`

### `/autopilot-setup`
**Description:** Configure project settings (JIRA, Git).
**Action:** Activate `@autopilot-setup` agent.
**Usage:** `/autopilot-setup`

## Context
When a user types one of these commands, you must:
1. Identify the matching agent in `.cursor/agents/`.
2. Activate that agent to handle the request.
3. Pass any arguments (like Task ID) to the agent.
```

### Step 4: Create Skills (Agents) with Model Configuration

#### 4.1 Write `.cursor/agents/autopilot-pull.md`
*Uses: `{{FAST_MODEL}}`*

```markdown
---
description: "Pull JIRA task metadata and initialize Git branch. Triggers: /pull, /autopilot-pull, 'start task', 'pull task'"
model: {{FAST_MODEL}}
tools: ["Read", "Write", "Bash"]
---

(Copy content from `.cursor/agents/autopilot-pull.md` body)
```

#### 4.2 Write `.cursor/agents/autopilot-plan.md`
*Uses: `{{SMART_MODEL}}` (Default) OR `{{FAST_MODEL}}` (Optimized)*

```markdown
---
description: "Classify task complexity (L0-L3) and generate execution plan. Triggers: /plan, /autopilot-plan, 'plan task', 'analyze task'"
model: {{SMART_MODEL}}
tools: ["Read", "Write", "Bash"]
---

(Copy content from `.cursor/agents/autopilot-plan.md` body)
```

#### 4.3 Write `.cursor/agents/autopilot-execute-plan.md`
*Uses: `{{SMART_MODEL}}`*

```markdown
---
description: "Execute dbt/SQL changes based on plan. Triggers: /execute-plan, /execute, 'implement changes', 'do work'"
model: {{SMART_MODEL}}
tools: ["Read", "Write", "Bash"]
---

(Copy content from `.cursor/agents/autopilot-execute-plan.md` body)
```

#### 4.4 Write `.cursor/agents/autopilot-review.md`
*Uses: `{{SMART_MODEL}}`*

```markdown
---
description: "Run final validation (dbt build, lint, docs) before PR. Triggers: /review, /autopilot-review, 'review changes', 'check quality'"
model: {{SMART_MODEL}}
tools: ["Read", "Write", "Bash"]
---

(Copy content from `.cursor/agents/autopilot-review.md` body)
```

#### 4.5 Write `.cursor/agents/autopilot-pr.md`
*Uses: `{{FAST_MODEL}}`*

```markdown
---
description: "Create Pull Request and request human review. Triggers: /pr, /autopilot-pr, 'create pr', 'open pr', 'ship it'"
model: {{FAST_MODEL}}
tools: ["Read", "Write", "Bash"]
---

(Copy content from `.cursor/agents/autopilot-pr.md` body)
```

#### 4.6 Write `.cursor/agents/autopilot-launch.md`
*Uses: `{{FAST_MODEL}}`*

```markdown
---
description: "Orchestrate full workflow (Pull -> Plan -> Execute -> PR). Triggers: /launch, /autopilot-launch, 'run autopilot', 'do it all'"
model: {{FAST_MODEL}}
tools: ["Read", "Write", "Bash"]
---

(Copy content from `.cursor/agents/autopilot-launch.md` body)
```

#### 4.7 Write `.cursor/agents/autopilot-setup.md`
*Uses: `{{FAST_MODEL}}`*

```markdown
---
description: "Configure Autopilot settings (JIRA, Git, Team). Triggers: /setup, /autopilot-setup, 'configure autopilot'"
model: {{FAST_MODEL}}
tools: ["Read", "Write", "Bash"]
---

(Copy content from `.cursor/agents/autopilot-setup.md` body)
```

### Step 5: Create OpenCode Commands

#### 5.1 Write `.opencode/command/autopilot-pull.md`
```markdown
---
description: "Pull JIRA task metadata and initialize Git branch. Triggers: /pull, /autopilot-pull, 'start task', 'pull task'"
arguments: "$TASK_ID"
---

# Autopilot Pull (OpenCode)

See Cursor version for full implementation: `.cursor/agents/autopilot-pull.md`
```

#### 5.2 Write `.opencode/command/autopilot-plan.md`
```markdown
---
description: "Classify task complexity (L0-L3) and generate execution plan. Triggers: /plan, /autopilot-plan, 'plan task', 'analyze task'"
arguments: "$TASK_ID"
---

# Autopilot Plan (OpenCode)

## Purpose
Classify task complexity (L0-L3) and generate execution plan if needed.

## Execution
This command follows the logic defined in `.cursor/agents/autopilot-plan.md`.

### Steps:
1. **Load State**: Verify `pull` stage is complete via `.autopilot/state.json`.
2. **Detect Models**: Identify affected dbt models from JIRA context and git diff.
3. **Impact Analysis**: Use `dbt ls --select +model+` to find downstream dependencies.
4. **Classification**: Apply L0-L3 heuristics (Silver layer escalates risk).
5. **Planning**: If L2/L3, generate structured steps in `.autopilot/state.json`.
6. **Persistence**: Save results to `.autopilot/classification.json`.

## Usage
```bash
/autopilot-plan TSK-123
```

## See Also
- Full logic: `.cursor/agents/autopilot-plan.md`
- Heuristics: `shared/prompts/classification.md`
- Schema: `shared/schemas/classification-schema.json`
```

#### 5.3 Write `.opencode/command/autopilot-execute-plan.md`
```markdown
---
description: "Execute dbt/SQL changes based on plan. Triggers: /execute-plan, /execute, 'implement changes', 'do work'"
---

# Autopilot Execute-Plan (OpenCode)

See Cursor version for full implementation: `.cursor/agents/autopilot-execute-plan.md`
```

#### 5.4 Write `.opencode/command/autopilot-review.md`
```markdown
---
description: "Run final validation (dbt build, lint, docs) before PR. Triggers: /review, /autopilot-review, 'review changes', 'check quality'"
---

# Autopilot Review (OpenCode)

See Cursor version for full implementation: `.cursor/agents/autopilot-review.md`
```

#### 5.5 Write `.opencode/command/autopilot-pr.md`
```markdown
---
description: "Create Pull Request and request human review. Triggers: /pr, /autopilot-pr, 'create pr', 'open pr', 'ship it'"
---

# Autopilot PR (OpenCode)

See Cursor version for full implementation: `.cursor/agents/autopilot-pr.md`
```

#### 5.6 Write `.opencode/command/autopilot-launch.md`
```markdown
---
description: "Orchestrate full workflow (Pull -> Plan -> Execute -> PR). Triggers: /launch, /autopilot-launch, 'run autopilot', 'do it all'"
arguments: "$TASK_ID"
---

# Autopilot Launch (OpenCode)

See Cursor version for full implementation: `.cursor/agents/autopilot-launch.md`
```

#### 5.7 Write `.opencode/command/autopilot-setup.md`
```markdown
---
description: "Configure Autopilot settings (JIRA, Git, Team). Triggers: /setup, /autopilot-setup"
---

# Autopilot Setup (OpenCode)

See Cursor version for full implementation: `.cursor/agents/autopilot-setup.md`

This command checks for `.autopilot/config.json` and helps you create it if missing.
```


### Step 6: Update .gitignore
Add the following to `.gitignore`:

```text
.autopilot/
.planning/
```

### Step 7: Final Verification
Run this command to verify installation:

```bash
ls -la .cursor/agents/
ls -la shared/schemas/
```

You should see 6 agent files and 3 schema files.

### Step 8: Cleanup (Optional)
If you copied the full repo, you can delete the `docs/` folder as it is not needed for runtime execution. All necessary context is embedded in the agents and `shared/` folder.

```bash
rm -rf docs/
```

## Completion Message
Once done, tell the user:
"AE Autopilot v1.0 installed successfully. 🚀
Run `/autopilot:launch TSK-123` to start your first task."
